README.md, before:

# a simple streamlit app

In this tutorial, we:

1. Load a data frame of coffee reviews, clean the data, and prepare it for modeling.
2. Use sentiment analysis on subsets of this data.
3. Build a web app which uses this sentiment analysis tool, and test it out locally.
4. Store data on Backblaze, and connect it to Streamlit.
5. Host the web app online using Streamlit (and GitHub).

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes the following:

- You have a GitHub account, and you're familiar with using git and .gitignore files.
- You can build and manage a pip Python environment.
- You are familiar with environment variables.

## Project Setup

1. Create a new folder for your web app (give it an [appropriate](https://gravitydept.com/blog/devising-a-git-repository-naming-convention) name), and place it in your GitHub "projects" folder.
2. Initiate a Git repository in this folder with `git init` in the command line (after navigating to that folder with `cd`). Then, [add it to your GitHub Desktop](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/adding-a-repository-from-your-local-computer-to-github-desktop). You'll want to use Git early and often to ensure that your changes are tracked, and you can always go back to (or compare with) a past version that works.
   - Note the contents of the .gitignore file. **Environment files (such as the .env file) should be strictly ignored.**
3. Initialize a pip environment using the *environment.yml* file in this directory. For example, if you're using Ana/Miniconda, you'll use `conda env create -f environment.yml`. 
4. Any time you add new packages to the environment, update the environment file, and save a new requirements file with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`.
   - **Note: all packages should be installed using pip.**

## Modularizing Code

When you feel ready for it, consider dividing your code into separate Python files, saved in modular folders. For example, you'll notice in this repository, there is a *utils* folder. In that folder, we have a few Python files with code tested out in Jupyter first. Once it was determined the code worked in Jupyter, it was transferred into the separate Python file as functions or Python [classes](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_classes.asp).

This *utils* folder, including the *\_\_init__.py* file, creates a Python [package](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#packages) of multiple modules. For instance, if you open a "scratch" notebook from the directory containing this folder, you'll find you can run code like `from utils.modeling import clean_data`. This keeps your notebook(s) clean, and it makes debugging much easier.

## Streamlit

The app in this repository is run on [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/).

Code can be tested locally with `streamlit run app.py` (assuming your app file name is `app.py`, of course). Once the app is running as you like, you can click the "Deploy" button on the upper right of the page. If you haven't already, you may need to [set up a Streamlit Cloud account](https://docs.streamlit.io/streamlit-community-cloud/get-started) to link your project GitHub repository.

#### Environment Variables

Use [dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv#getting-started) to manage environment variables. You'll need to `pip` install it, as directed in the instructions, then create a file with the name *.env* (notice the period) in your project directory to hold any keys or secrets. We'll be using dotenv to access Backblaze, below. **Make sure ".env" is added to your [.gitignore file](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/gitignore)**.

Once your environment variables are working locally, make sure you configure them accordingly on Streamlit using their [Secrets Management](https://docs.streamlit.io/streamlit-community-cloud/deploy-your-app/secrets-management).

## Backblaze

Sign up for the [Backblaze B2 Cloud Storage](https://www.backblaze.com/b2/cloud-storage.html) service. At the time of writing this, the first 10GB are free! For more information on Backblaze, check out their [documentation](https://www.backblaze.com/docs/cloud-storage-python-developer-quick-start-guide).

1. Set up at least one storage bucket for your project, and at least one app key. It's recommended that you get into the habit of keeping your bucket *private*.
   - You can set the "Default Encryption" to be "Disabled". Enabling this just adds another level of protection which you can experiment with *if you like*. Since this also adds a level of complexity and room for error, this tutorial assumes this is "Disabled."
   - When shown an app key or bucket key, make sure to save it in some file locally somewhere!
2. This package includes a few Backblaze helper functions in the *utils/b2.py* file.
   - For more information on these functions, take a look at the [Backblaze b2sdk documentation](https://b2-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/master/index.html) (this is the Python package driving the [Backblaze Native API](https://www.backblaze.com/apidocs/introduction-to-the-b2-native-api)).



## Other Resources

- You may consider using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) to train your model and mold your project. Feel free to [use this as a template](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1kgr3zMrC4sgBZXCx0jgVwXAIPXJgUJn_?usp=sharing) (i.e., make a copy of that notebook if you like). 
- Note that this app just uses the native Streamlit visualization functionality. For more flexibility on your visualization options, see [here](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/api-reference/charts).
- [Render](https://render.com/) and [Railway](https://railway.app/) are alternatives for hosting more robust web apps, but their free tiers can be restricting. In these cases, it's best to just pay the monthly fee.
- [Plotly Dash](https://dash.plotly.com/tutorial) is an alternative for building extensive interactive visualizations, dashboards, and more intriguing Python-based products. It requires a more robust app hosting resource like Render or Railway, and it does have a bit of a learning curve.

Commit message:

Add info on caching; add note about req's

README.md, after:

# a simple streamlit app

In this tutorial, we:

1. Load a data frame of coffee reviews, clean the data, and prepare it for modeling.
2. Use sentiment analysis on subsets of this data.
3. Build a web app which uses this sentiment analysis tool, and test it out locally.
4. Store data on Backblaze, and connect it to Streamlit.
5. Host the web app online using Streamlit (and GitHub).

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes the following:

- You have a GitHub account, and you're familiar with using git and .gitignore files.
- You can build and manage a pip Python environment.
- You are familiar with environment variables.

## Project Setup

1. Create a new folder for your web app (give it an [appropriate](https://gravitydept.com/blog/devising-a-git-repository-naming-convention) name), and place it in your GitHub "projects" folder.
2. Initiate a Git repository in this folder with `git init` in the command line (after navigating to that folder with `cd`). Then, [add it to your GitHub Desktop](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/adding-and-cloning-repositories/adding-a-repository-from-your-local-computer-to-github-desktop). You'll want to use Git early and often to ensure that your changes are tracked, and you can always go back to (or compare with) a past version that works.
   - Note the contents of the .gitignore file. **Environment files (such as the .env file) should be strictly ignored.**
3. Initialize a pip environment using the *environment.yml* file in this directory. For example, if you're using Ana/Miniconda, you'll use `conda env create -f environment.yml`. 
4. Any time you add new packages to the environment, **update the environment file**, and save an updated requirements file with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`. Choose one to add to your .gitignore file.
   - **Note: all packages should be installed using pip.**
   - Keep in mind, if you have both a "requirements.txt" file *and* an "environment.yml" file, [Streamlit will only use the .yml file](https://docs.streamlit.io/streamlit-community-cloud/deploy-your-app/app-dependencies#other-python-package-managers). Pick one!

## Modularizing Code

When you feel ready for it, consider dividing your code into separate Python files, saved in modular folders. For example, you'll notice in this repository, there is a *utils* folder. In that folder, we have a few Python files with code tested out in Jupyter first. Once it was determined the code worked in Jupyter, it was transferred into the separate Python file as functions or Python [classes](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_classes.asp).

This *utils* folder, including the *\_\_init__.py* file, creates a Python [package](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/modules.html#packages) of multiple modules. For instance, if you open a "scratch" notebook from the directory containing this folder, you'll find you can run code like `from utils.modeling import clean_data`. This keeps your notebook(s) clean, and it makes debugging much easier.

## Streamlit

The app in this repository is run on [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/).

Code can be tested locally with `streamlit run app.py` (assuming your app file name is `app.py`, of course). Once the app is running as you like, you can click the "Deploy" button on the upper right of the page. If you haven't already, you may need to [set up a Streamlit Cloud account](https://docs.streamlit.io/streamlit-community-cloud/get-started) to link your project GitHub repository.

#### Environment Variables

Use [dotenv](https://github.com/theskumar/python-dotenv#getting-started) to manage environment variables. You'll need to `pip` install it, as directed in the instructions, then create a file with the name *.env* (notice the period) in your project directory to hold any keys or secrets. We'll be using dotenv to access Backblaze, below. **Make sure ".env" is added to your [.gitignore file](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/gitignore)**.

Once your environment variables are working locally, make sure you configure them accordingly on Streamlit using their [Secrets Management](https://docs.streamlit.io/streamlit-community-cloud/deploy-your-app/secrets-management).

#### Caching

This app uses [Streamlit caching](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/advanced-features/caching) capabilities to cache (or save) objects whose loading would otherwise slow down the application. To do so, the app employs decorator functions. For more information on decorator functions in Python, I recommend the first two sections of [this article on RealPython](https://realpython.com/primer-on-python-decorators), by Geir Arne Hjelle.

In short, a decorator function adjusts its companion function by "wrapping" it in some other function. Here, the `@st.cache_data` or `@st.cache_object` decorator wraps its companion function such that the input is checked against a list of previous inputs of that function. If it's been run before, the output is pulled from this 

## Backblaze

Sign up for the [Backblaze B2 Cloud Storage](https://www.backblaze.com/b2/cloud-storage.html) service. At the time of writing this, the first 10GB are free! For more information on Backblaze, check out their [documentation](https://www.backblaze.com/docs/cloud-storage-python-developer-quick-start-guide).

1. Set up at least one storage bucket for your project, and at least one app key. It's recommended that you get into the habit of keeping your bucket *private*.
   - You can set the "Default Encryption" to be "Disabled". Enabling this just adds another level of protection which you can experiment with *if you like*. Since this also adds a level of complexity and room for error, this tutorial assumes this is "Disabled."
   - When shown an app key or bucket key, make sure to save it in some file locally somewhere!
2. This package includes a few Backblaze helper functions in the *utils/b2.py* file.
   - For more information on these functions, take a look at the [Backblaze b2sdk documentation](https://b2-sdk-python.readthedocs.io/en/master/index.html) (this is the Python package driving the [Backblaze Native API](https://www.backblaze.com/apidocs/introduction-to-the-b2-native-api)).



## Other Resources

- You may consider using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) to train your model and mold your project. Feel free to [use this as a template](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1kgr3zMrC4sgBZXCx0jgVwXAIPXJgUJn_?usp=sharing) (i.e., make a copy of that notebook if you like). 
- Note that this app just uses the native Streamlit visualization functionality. For more flexibility on your visualization options, see [here](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/api-reference/charts).
- [Render](https://render.com/) and [Railway](https://railway.app/) are alternatives for hosting more robust web apps, but their free tiers can be restricting. In these cases, it's best to just pay the monthly fee.
- [Plotly Dash](https://dash.plotly.com/tutorial) is an alternative for building extensive interactive visualizations, dashboards, and more intriguing Python-based products. It requires a more robust app hosting resource like Render or Railway, and it does have a bit of a learning curve.
